*conventions.txt*            Help File Conventions                   May 8, 2017
================================================================================
| <?> TOC | <Enter> Follow Link | <Tab> Next Link |        Back to |index.txt| |
+---------+---------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+

  +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Since this is just a demo of how a help system could be implemented and  |
  | it's entirely up to you how you would go about implementing something    |
  | like this, the items in this list should be taken as advice only and not |
  | gospel.                                                                  |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Use index.txt for your help index
=================================

When the `help` command is invoked without being told to display the table of
contents or a specific topic and the current view is not a help file with a
topic under the cursor, it uses `index.txt` as the default topic to display.

For this reason, the help system should always be rooted in a file named
`index.txt` that has some brief information and includes the main jumping off
points for the rest of the help pages.

This allows the help system to display a useful default help topic in case the
command is executed without a topic.


All help pages should have a common header
==========================================

As can be seen in the help pages here, every help page should contain at the
very least the specific header line that includes the name of the file, the
title of the page, and the last modification date.

Additionally, the name of the file in the header should be a target so that it
is possible to jump directly to the page from a link in another help page.

The syntax that highlights the header line only requires a single space between
the link target and the page title and two spaces between the title and the date
field, so feel free to lay them out as you wish. You could also swap their
positions around or add other sections (maybe a version number).

It may also be useful to include some small reminder of the help keys available,
such as is done in the help pages here. With a modification to the key bindings
you could also make the question mark key open a "Help on Help" kind of page as
well, for example.

As shown here the header for all pages also includes a link back to the index.
You may instead decide to include navigation back to somewhere else (e.g. a
shared index page for a subset of smaller help pages) or skip this entirely.
